# CS320

How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?

The best way to ensure that my work is functional and secure is by adding appropriate tests. During this term I learned how to employ appropriate JUNIT 5 tests that check if my code meets requirements and functions appropriately. Some of the tests I used for this were assertions, such as assertThrows, assertEquals, assertNull, and assertDoesNotThrow. I also learned how to check that my code has ample test coverage by running the program as a JUNIT test to generate the coverage percentage. Our requirement for the work listed here was 80%, which I met by including the mentioned tests. One way I achieved this coverage was to not only test for violations of the given requirements, but to also employ the use of tests to verify successful results as well. Overall, I learned about many different JUNIT tests that I can use in my code going forward to ensure that it is functional and secure while meeting the specified requirements. 

How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?

The best way to interpret user needs and incorportate them into the program is to have a very clear understanding of the user requirements. Thoroughly understanding user requirements allows you to be able to anticipate the needs of the end user to the best of your ability. When establishing requirements, asking the users about how they use the program currently and how they want to use the program in the future may help them to better convery the changes they want to be made. Providing working software as early and often as possible also helps to understand the user's needs. This is extremely important to ensuring you're on the right track development-wise and can help to save you from having to make large scale changes further along in the software development lifecycle. 

How do I approach designing software?

When approaching designing software it is crucial to keep the fundementals in mind. Start with a structured process that includes gathering clear requirements, planning, designing, development, testing, and finally deployment. Working with a team in an agile environment that allows for continuous changes and integrations if needed would be ideal to designing software that meets the stakeholders expectations faster, as their feedback can be factored in more often. In the planning stage you can set timelines and assign roles. When designing, employing the use of SDLC models and frameworks can help keep everyone on the same page and preview what the completed work will look like. In the development phase ensuring that you're following coding standard best practices and meeting the known requirements is essential. In the testing phase automated software may be utilized to speed time to development and ensure continuous integration. However, double checking everything is a must as even automated software can make mistakes. When the software has been tested and deugged to ensure that the technical debt is as minimal as possible releasing it to the user is appropriate, all while being sure to update and maintain the software as needed. 
